Computational Musicology: Portfolio

Introduction
------------
Music is culturally universal and found in every society throughout history, with each style being developed independently from centuries ago. Starting from the 20th century, new media technologies have made it more convenient for music to reach larger audiences (e.g. radio, CDs, internet). It also has become easier for artists to record, produce, and distribute their artwork. Combined with the advent of electronic instruments, these new possibilities offered room for more freedom and experimentation, developing new musical genres along the way such as rock, hiphop, and electronic. These genres did not remain isolated within geographical regions, but it also arrived in other parts of the world. Although modern genres share common characteristics, it seems from my own listening experience that one genre from two regions can still sound different. It seems from my own listening experience that songs of a particular genre from East Asia can still sound different than songs of the same genre from North America/Europe. It can be ruled out that this feeling is due to me being psychologically aware that these songs are produced in different continents or the songs are indeed distinct because of a difference in musical language. Therefore, I want to study how much the sound of modern music from US/Europe differ from East Asia.

Sidenote: If too broad, I could limit myself to study a specific genre between two geographic regions/countries. For example: math rock between US and Japan.

For my musical corpus, I'll be selecting a total of approximately 200 songs. The first 100 songs consist of popular music from US/Europe (50) and East Asia (50), collected from region-specific playlists on Spotify. The second 100 will be a list of songs that I personally listen from both areas and which were not included in the previously mentioned playlists. Making a distinction between a Spotify playlist and personal playlist is intentional, because I also want to rule out whether prior observations of experiencing non-Western music differently is influenced by my personal preferences in music, apart from the being aware that the songs were produced in different countries as mentioned earlier.
